Assignment 1 Solution

1.	In the below elements which of them are values or an expression?
Values: ‘hello’, -87.8,6
Expression:  -, +, /, *

2.	What is the difference between string and variable?
A variable is a temporary storage location that store any type of data while String is a type of data that represents a series of characters called text. 
A variable represents value that can be any data type like string or integer or float.
Example: name=” Katyayni Jha”
Here, name is a VARIABLE and Katyayni Jha is a STRING

3.	Describe three different data types.
Three data types are-
A)	Integer- A type of data that contains all positive or negative whole numbers without fraction or decimals. E.g.-: 45, -980
B)	String- A data type that contain a series of alpha-numeric characters enclosed in single or double or triple inverted comma. We use triple inverted comma to represent paragraph.
 E.g.: ‘ram’, ‘123’, ‘ras_12’, “RAMESH”
        C)    Float- - A type of data that contains all positive or negative whole numbers with fraction or
decimal. E.g.: 4.5, 379.32

4.	What is an expression made up of? What do all expressions do?
An expression is made up of operators and operands. Expression produces some value or result after being interpreted by python interpreter.
5*4+2 is an expression. 

5.	This assignment statements, like spam = 10. What is the difference between an
expression and a statement?
An expression is evaluated to produce some value while a statement is executed to perform some tasks like creating variables or displaying values.
Here, on the execution of statement spam= 10, a variable will be created that store integer value. So execution of statement change the state of variable while an expression evaluation does not result in any state change.
 
6.	After running the following code, what does the variable bacon contain?
bacon = 22
bacon + 1
bacon contain integer value 22 as reassignment has not been done, bacon+1 is not stored in bacon.

7.	What should the values of the following two terms be?
‘spam’ + ‘spamspam’ gives ‘spamspamspam’
‘spam’ * 3 gives ‘spamspamspam’

8.	Why is eggs a valid variable name while 100 is invalid?
A variable name cannot be start with any digit, so 100 is invalid variable name while eggs start with character so it is valid variable name.

9.	What three functions can be used to get the integer, floating-point number, or string
version of a value?
Integer- int()
Floating point number- float()
String= str()

10.	Why does this expression cause an error? How can you fix it?
This expression causes an error because we cannot concatenate string with integer (99). 
Correct expression-
‘I have eaten’ + ‘99’ + ‘burritos’, now ‘99’ is a string.


 
